✅
# Section A - Memory

1. What is a page replacement algorithm?
	A page replacement algorithm is an algorithm that the operating system consults when a page fault occurs and a new page must be brought into memory

2. When is a page replacement Algorithm used?
	Whenever a page fault occurs AND there are no free pages. If there is a free page in memory the OS will just load in the new page without needing to replace anything ✅

You have been asked to select an appropriate page replacement algorithm for a high-performance computing cluster that supports a single CPU-intensive application consisting of many processes (1 per node in the cluster). Each process updates elements of a 2 GB array (on a 32-bit architecture machine) with good locality of reference.

Describe the major characteristics of the algorithm that you would choose, justifying your answer.

3.  Should this be a global or local algorithm?
	Only local page replacement algorithms would be necessary. Local page replacement algorithms only allow a process to swap out its own pages. This would be essential to avoid thrashing the memory pages of essential background processes.

4. What is the effect of page faults on the processes running on each node?
	This depends on whether a global or local page replacement algorithm was chosen. A global algorithm would cause pages of other processes to be swapped out, a local one would not.

5. What would be a suitable and practical page replacement algorithm?
	Optimal page replacement algorithm is impossible to implement because it requires knowing the future. FIFO would be a bad choice due to belady's anomaly, which makes page faults more frequent as you add more page frames. The second-chance algorithm (commonly implemented using a clock) would be a good choice because it is a very good approximation of Least Recently Used, especially considering the application has a "good locality of reference"

6. When a frame is needed, what will be the situation after the new page has been inserted?
	B ✅

7. When a frame is needed, which page will be replaced?
	A.  The two-hand enhanced second chance algorithm uses a clearing hand and a trailing hand to introduce a tunable hand-span window to the algorithm. The trailling hand will do a sweep of all the pages looking for a page with (0,0) to swap out. If it finds none it will look for (0,1) on its next sweep. If all pages have been recently used then the trailling hand will evict the page that was used the longest time ago. The bits stand for (recently used, dirty). 

8. Under which circumstances would the clock variant (two-handed clock second-chance algorithm) be preferred over the standard second-chance algorithm.
	If an application is rapidly updating random elements in a large array ✅

# Section B - Synchronization

9. Which is the correct pseudocode for two tasks using semaphores to perform mutual exclusion of a critical section.
	B ✅

10. Which is the correct pseudocode to synchronise two tasks. Include semaphore initialization.
	A and B ✅

11. Specify the possible order of the code executed by these two tasks on a uniprocessor system.
    A and D ✅

12. What is the correct pseudocode for a typical task that uses this concept?
    D. You must lock the mutex before calling the while loop. The wait function will temporarily unlock the mutex whilst the thread is sleeping. When the thread is signalled awake again it will reacquire the mutex and loop back to the conditional. If the condition is met the thread will execute and signal other threads before unlocking the mutex. If the condition is not met the thread will go back to sleep until it is woken up again.

13.  Is the following system deadlocked?
    A. If there was only one instance of R1 and R2 respectively the system would be deadlocked, But since there are two the system can escape deadlock. Since P3 isn't wating for any more resources it will eventually finish its task and release the second copies of R1 and R2, thus freeing the system from deadlock.

# Section C - Scheduling

14.  Which is the correct Gantt chart for the execution of these processes using First-Come First-Serve
    C ✅

15. Which is the correct Gantt chart for the execution of these processes using Shortest Job First
    A ✅

16. Which is the correct Gantt chart for the execution of these processes using non-preemptive priority scheduling
    A. Since P1 arrives before P4, it will be executed first even though they have the same priority.

17. Which is the correct Gantt chart for the execution of these processes using Round Robin (Time Quantum 1)
    B ✅

18. What is the average waiting time (over all processes) for the algorithm with minimal average waiting time?
    3.6 ✅

19. What algorithm makes P5 finish the earliest?
    Priotity Scheduling ✅