# Section A: Memory & Peripherals

Consider a system similar to the Raspberry Pi with a 4 CPU processor, with a 32KB L1
cache per CPU, a 512KB L2 cache, an 1GB RAM and a 64GB SDCard. Assume that the
memory page size is 4KB. Assume that the SDCard is ext4 format with a 4KB block size. In
the following calculations take into account that the ext4 format uses 1 block for the boot
block and one for the superblock.

- **Q01:** How many datablocks does this system have?
    
    - ==A) 15.99 M blocks==
        
    - B) 16 M blocks
        
    - C) 15.99 K blocks
        
    - D) 16 K blocks
        

(b) Given a system similar to the Raspberry Pi 3 B:
-
 1 GB of DRAM
 64 GB of disk space on a micro-SD card with read/write bandwidth of 32 MB/s
 two quad-core Arm Cortex A53 CPUs with 1 GHz clock speed, shared L2 cache of 512 KB, per-core L1 cache of 32 KB
Consider a program which processes large input data such as a video stream. The video is
recorded at 4 frames per second. Each frame takes 48MB of memory. The program generates one thread per frame to identify a human present in the frame. Each thread processes the frame and stores a result as an integer in the L2 shared cache. If one of threads finds a human then all threads stop processing the current allocation and move to the next second’s allocation.

- **Q04:** In your opinion what is the predominant bottleneck in this program
    
    - A) The program more than the available CPUs to process the images
        
    - ==B) The program needs more space than the L1 cache to store one frame==
        
    - C) The threads need shared access to L2 cache causing resource race condition
        
    - D) The 4 threads will need more space than the available RAM, L1 and L2 cache space combined
        
- **Q05:** Which of the following abstract code segments is correct?
    
    - ==**A.** `socket(...); bind(...); listen(...); if (accept(...)){ recv(...); } close(...);`==
        
    - **B.** `socketopt(...); listen(...); bind(...); if (accept(...)){ recv(...); } close(...);`
        
    - **C.** `socket(...); listen(...); bind(...); if (recv(...)){ accept(...); } close(...);`
        
    - **D.** `socketopt(...); listen(...); bind(...); f(recv(...)){ send(...); } close(...);`

(d) Page Replacement Algorithms
Consider a system with 4 page frames which are initially empty. The system executes the
following sequence of page accesses:
5 7 8 1 0 7 8 0 4 0 4 5

- **Q06:** What is the minimum number of possible page faults using the Random Algorithm if the frames to replace are selected in this order 1,3,4,3,2,1,2,4,1?
    
    - A) 2 faults
        
    - B) 7 faults
        
    - ==C) 3 faults==
        
    - D) 0 faults
        
- **Q07:** A popularly-used replacement algorithm is Least Recently Used (LRU). How many page faults occur using LRU for the given sequence?
    
    - A) 2 faults
        
    - ==B) 3 faults==
        
    - C) 0 faults
        
    - D) 1 faults
        
- **Q08:** When a frame is needed, which page will be replaced?
    
    - ==A. P7==
        
    - B. P5
        
    - C. P4
        
    - D. P3
        
- **Q09:** How many bytes of memory will there be?
    
    - A. 128 KB
        
    - B. 1024
        
    - ==C. 1 KB==
        
    - D. 1 MB
        

---

**Section B**

- **Q10:** Aging is required when:
    
    - A. There are racing conditions
        
    - B. There are deadlocks in the resource graph
        
    - ==C. There is process starvation==
        
    - D. An older process's priority is increased
        
- **Q11:** Given the following resource allocation graph where Rx is a resource, Px is a process, and an arrow represents holding (Rx pointing to Px) or requesting (Px pointing to Rx) a resource, is the system deadlocked or not?
    
    - A. Not deadlocked.
        
    - ==B. Deadlocked==
        
    - C. It is not possible to tell from the diagram
        
    - D. It depends on the sequence of the requests
        
- **Q12:** Is this program deadlocked or not?
    
    - A. It will never be deadlocked.
        
    - B. It will always be deadlocked
        
    - C. It is not possible to tell from the code segment
        
    - ==D. It depends on the sequence of execution==
        
- **Q13:** Is this program thread safe?
    
    - A. Yes the program is thread safe for all the threads.
        
    - ==B. No the program is not thread safe for any of the threads.==
        
    - C. Threads 1 and 3 are thread safe but thread 2 is not.
        
    - D. Thread 2 is thread safe but thread 1 and 3 are not.
        
- **Q14:** How many times will i increment before all mutexes are destroyed in the worst case?
    
    - A. i will increment at least three (3) times, thus, the worst case is three (3).
        
    - B. i will increment at exactly three (3) times, thus, the worst case is three (3).
        
    - ==C. The worst case of i increments is infinite (0∞).==
        
    - D. i will increment at most three (3) times, thus, the worst case is three (3).
        
- **Q15:** If we remove all the goto commands, Could the following sequence of increments happen (with exactly this order)? Thread 1 increments i from 0 to 1 of from 1 to 2 depending on sequence of execution. Thread 2 increments i from 0 to 1 or from 1 to 2 depending on sequence of execution. Thread 3 increments i from 0 to 1 or from 1 to 2 depending on sequence of execution.
    
    - A. Yes, this exact sequence is possible.
        
    - ==B. No, this exact sequence will never happen; it's impossible.==
        
    - C. This exact sequence is possible to happen if and only if mutex m2 is locked before it is destroyed.
        
    - D. This exact sequence is possible to happen if and only if the mutex ml is locked before it is destroyed.
        
- **Q16:** If thread 2 starts before thread 1, and the time slice is 1 assembler instruction, what will the final value of n be after running the program?
    
    - ==A) 1==
        
    - B) 5
        
    - C) 1.2
        
    - D) 6
        
- **Q17:** Consider two threads trying to send data through the same network port. Each thread must acquire access to the port safely and send its data. Which of the following code segments is correctly implementing this functionality?
    
    - **A.** `mutex mutual_exclusion; thread_A(){ do { ........ unlock(mutual_exclusion); send(data); bind(port); lock(mutual_exclusion); } FOREVER } thread_B(){ do { ........ bind(port); lock(mutual_exclusion); send(data); unlock(mutual_exclusion); } FOREVER }`
        
    - **B.** `mutex mutual_exclusion; thread_A(){ do { ........ lock(mutual_exclusion); send(data); bind(port); unlock(mutual_exclusion); } FOREVER } thread_B(){ do { ........ lock(mutual_exclusion); send(port); bind(data); unlock(mutual_exclusion); } FOREVER }`
        
    - **C.** `/* must initialise this to 1 */ sem mutual_exclusion; thread_A(){ do { ........ unlock(mutual_exclusion); bind(port); send(data); } FOREVER } thread_B(){ do { ........ lock(mutual_exclusion); send(data); bind(port); } FOREVER }`
        
    - **D.** `/* must initialise this to 1 */ sem mutual_exclusion; thread_A(){ do { ........ lock(mutual_exclusion); send(data); unlock(mutual_exclusion); } FOREVER } thread_B(){ do { ........ unlock(mutual_exclusion); send(data); lock(mutual_exclusion); } FOREVER }`
        

---

**Section C: Scheduling**

- **Q18:** (a) FCFS
    

||P1|P2|P3|P4|P5|P6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**A)**|5|12|21|22|26|28|
|**B)**|4|11|20|21|25|27|
|**C)**|6|13|22|23|27|29|
|**D)**|5|12|21|22|25|28|

- **Q19:** (b) SJF
    

||P1|P2|P3|P4|P5|P6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**A)**|13|20|29|2|8|4|
|**B)**|12|19|28|1|7|3|
|**C)**|11|18|27|0|6|2|
|**D)**|19|14|28|1|7|3|

- **Q20:** (c) Priority
    

||P1|P2|P3|P4|P5|P6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**A)**|21|28|15|16|4|6|
|**B)**|28|23|16|7|6|2|
|**C)**|5|12|21|22|26|28|
|**D)**|20|28|14|15|3|5|

- **Q21:** (d) RR (quantum = 2)
    

||P1|P2|P3|P4|P5|P6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**A)**|20|25|28|7|19|11|
|**B)**|22|28|32|8|20|12|
|**C)**|20|24|28|7|19|11|
|**D)**|22|28|31|8|20|12|

- **Q22:** (ii) Which of the algorithms results in P1 finishing the earliest?
    
    - 1. SJF
            
    - 2. FCFS
            
    - 3. RR
            
    - 4. Priority
            
- **Q23:** (ii) Which of the algorithms results in P6 finishing the earliest?
    
    - 1. SJF
            
    - 2. FCFS
            
    - 3. RR
            
    - 4. Priority