1. (a) 0-RTT connection establishment can occur when a client has previously connected to a server using a TCP handshake. The Server and Client can share a secret key that allows the client direct connection to the server without need to re-perform the TCP handshake. 
To do this, the client encodes a message encrypted with the pre-shared key (usually a HTTP GET request) into the Clienthello. When the Server receives this message it decrypts the message using the pre-shared key and immediately sends its reply in the Serverhello. This means that communication can start with no pre-amble as you don't have to wait for the TLS handshake to complete before sending data.
However, this type of connection could be usurped by hackers.
Replay attacks: A replay attack is when a hacker intercepts and steals the Clienthello message. The hacker can keep this message and "replay" it to the server as many times as they want. This can be dangerous if the Clienthello contained a request for a financial transaction.
No Perfect Forward Secrecy: Typical TCP connections have forward secrecy as the connection key shared between the server and client is ephemeral. However for 0-RTT connections the pre-shared key is reused for the first request (Clienthello) and the first response (Serverhello) - this is known as the "early data". If a hacker records your early data over a period of time and is, at any point, able to steal the pre-shared key, they would be able to decode all of the early data they recorded using that key. The rest of the data would be safe however, as after the TLS handshake completes in the re-connection a new ephemeral key is still agreed upon and used for the rest of the connection's lifetime.
The risk here lies in the early data. Realistically, as long as sensitive information isn't leaked during the connection establishment your data is as safe as with regular TLS. All data but the early data has perfect forward secrecy. You are trading security for speed but at the end of the day, as long as sensitive data isnt leaked in the early data I would say the increase in efficiency is worth it as it leads to reduced latency, less overhead in the server, and less waiting time which can mean less battery expenditure in mobile devices.

(b) Encryption of transport headers avoids metadata leakage that could expose sensitive data about an individual to a third party.
**Distance can be inferred based on packet timing:** By seeing the RTT of the TLS handshake, hackers can infer your distance away from a server using the speed of light. If the time difference between the Clienthello and Serverhello is, for example, 100ms, they know that the one-way travel time is 50ms. From this the hacker can use d=vt to find your approximate distance from the server. In this example they would know that you are within a 10,000 radius of the server. This is not extremely useful as they can't triangulate your position with only one server. If they can see you communicating with multiple servers however, that can triangulate your position by overlapping the radii from each server. However, this is a very rough estimate, as routing inefficiencies, processing delays, and congestion can all slow down a TCP handshake and mess with the calculation. Timing analysis does do a good job of finding your maximum possible distance from a server.
**Server Name Indication Field is unencrypted:** Since the Server Name Identification Field is unencrypted to let the server know the domain of the website it should pull up. This contains the domain name of the website being visited. They can combine this information with packet timing data (and inferred geolocation), to build a profile of your life. They can see when you wake up, go to work, what your hobbies are, and how much time you spend using specific services. They would know if you visited a cancer support website or a suicide prevention website. They can use this information to manipulate and control individuals.
**TCP Reset Attack:** If control data is visible to hackers they can jump into the connection with a spoofed IP and accurate Sequence Number and trick the server into closing the connection. The hacker can do this by spoofing the client's IP and sending a RESET packet to the server with the Sequence Number that the server is expecting next from the client, making the server think that the client has left and closing the connection, causing whatever operation was happening between the client and server to fail.

### Preventing Ossification
QUIC prevents protocol ossification by using encryption to block devices in the network from viewing control information. Preventing network devices from seeing control information means they can't build rules around the data. They must just let the data through because they can't understand it. This also prevents network devices from seeing state information, which means they can't build rules around that either. This means that if engineers want to change how QUIC handles connection states or control in the future they can do so without breaking anything because the network devices never understood it in the first place.
**TLS version negotiation:** This was a downfall of TLS v1.3, When TLS v1.3 was first released many middleboxes rejected TCP connection requests with the new header. Approximately 8% of new TCP connections failed. The fix for this was to make the header of TLS v1.3 packets still say v1.2 and then add a header extension that says "I'm really v1.3". This happened because network devices built rules around what they learned to expect. They ossified in the old system and now the internet can't be upgraded without breaking.

2.
(a) When a packet is not received TCP will repeat the ack with the sequence number of the last received packet 3 times (that means 4 consecutive ACKS with the same sequence number in a row). This was chosen based on measurements made taking into account the speed of transmission vs the likelihood of a packet getting lost. Reordering of consecutive packets is common enough to be worth accomodating but further reordering is not. It is common for a packet to be late enough to cause two duplicate ACKs so setting the threshold to 2 would cause unnecessary retransmission in response to packet reordering and waste time. Setting the threshold to four would increase the likelihood of the application waiting too long to retransmit lost data, which would also waste time.

(b) ECN stands for Explicit Congestion Notification. It is used to notify the sender when the receiver's network is getting congested but not yet sufficiently overloaded that packets need to be discarded, to tell it to slow down transmission to avoid packet loss. When they perform the TCP handshake the sender sets the ECN-Capable Transport (ECT) bit to true to indicate that they support ECN. When the packet gets sent through the network, if the receiver's router is experiencing congestion it will change this bit to ECT-CE (Congestion Experienced) before it forwards it to the receiver. The receiver will see that the bit has been set to CE and immediately set the ECN Echo (ECE) bit in the segment it generates to send back to the sender. When the sender receives the segment with the ECE bit set, it reduces its TCP congestion window to slow down transmission and avoid packets being lost the same way it would if a packet was lost.

(c) ECN is useful for video conferencing applications because it slows down transmission to ease congestion so the sender can avoid UDP packet loss before it occurs. This is important because UDP is unreliable and does not retransmit lost packets. This has the effect of relieving pressure on the Router's Network Queue which leads to faster queue throughput and improves the quality of the call. This is important for interactive applications because packet loss, latency, and data retransmission make real time interaction difficult.

3. (a) This would cause server-client connections to fail globally. Pre-established connections would be fine until they are closed. Data in the servers would not be lost but it would be inaccessible. This may not manifest itself immediately. Intra-Domain routing is used to speed up lookup to a specific server from faraway places. It is a location where data from the distant server is cached for local use. It is possible that people using CDNs may still be able to access the websites stored there until the data is purged from the CDN. The Time the data has to live (TTL) depends on how long the CDN keeps data in the cache before fetching a fresh copy. You would expect not all DNS lookups to fail immediately, but see an increased number fail over time as they are removed from the cache until none are left.

(b) UDP was a good choice on a smaller internet because it was fast, required little overhead, and each DNS request and response could fit into a single UDP packet. TCP doesn't offer a benefit in reliability compared to just resending a request if no response is received, and there is not enough network congestion for congestion control to work.
DNS is moving to alternative transport protocols because:
With the deployment of DNS security and authenticated DNS responses, DNS request are now too large to fit within a single UDP packet.
It is desireable in a larger internet to encrypt and authenticate DNS requests and responses, which is easier to do using a transport protocol that supports these features (such as TCP, TLS, QUIC).

(c) DNS-over-HTTPS is a DNS request that is sent using HTTPS to a server that can perform the DNS lookup and reply with a HTTPS response. 
It is controversial because it can circumvent the local DNS resolver and any policy that resolver enforces, and because there are privacy implications with a central DNS resolver that can track queries.
The benefit of DNS-over-HTTPS is that is encrypts your DNS requests in a HTTPS packet and sends it out of port 443 amongst a sea of other HTTPS web browsing. This means hackers can't track your browsing habits, which protects privacy.
DoH removes your ISP's and local network's ability to observe your browsing habits. This protects user from untrustworthy local networks and prevents ISPs from monetizing their customer's browsing data. This builds on the concept of zero-trust browsing, in which you assume all networks are unsafe and untrustworthy.
However, DNS also blinds network admins and can bypass content filtering and threat detection. If the network can't see what you're trying to download then nobody will be able to stop you getting infected with malware. If a school or business uses filtering to block specific content, users can bypass those restrictions rendering the security tool useless.
Overall I believe that DoH has been beneficial for the internet and personal online security. For example jounralists in foreign countries where DNS can be used to track and arrest people. They need a secure and private way to access the internet and send/receive information. For these reasons I conclude that DNS-o-HTTPS has been beneficial in more ways than it has been harmful.
