1.
 (a) There have been numerous studies measuring the sizes of the packets that traverse of the
Internet. Three common findings are the occurrence of a very large number of packets sized
approximately 40 bytes, the occurrence of a large number of packets of approximately 1500
bytes in size, and relatively few packets of other sizes. Explain the reason for each finding. [5]
	This is due to the size of packets during the TCP handshake and the Maximum Transmission Unit over ethernet. 
	The ACK and SYN packets in the TCP handshakes only make use of the TCP headers which are 20 bytes, and when they are sent over the network this is combined with an IP header which is also 20 bytes, making a total of 40 bytes per packet. 
	Once the handshake is completed TCP will make use of the maximum packet size it is allowed to send over the network at a time, which is limited by the physical ethernet connection between the router and the network. 
	The router typically limits ethernet packets to 1500 bytes, so TCP will fill that space in order to reduce header overhead. This is why it is mainly 40 byte and 1500 byte packets that are being sent over the network, as a majority of traffic in the internet is caused by downloads/uploads and their corresponding acknowledgements. 
	The cause for the variation could be due to interactive applications such as live streaming video using UDP, which supports variable packet sizes of which the application can choose from.

(b) A client connected to a WiFi network opens a TCP connection, sends 4000 bytes of data to
a server, then closes the connection. The server accepts the connection and repeatedly calls
recv() on that connection, providing a 4000 byte buffer to read into each time, until the
connection is closed. How often would you expect the server to need to call recv() in
order to read all the data on the connection? How many bytes of data would you expect the
call(s) to the recv() function to return? Explain your answers, including some discussion
around whether you’d always expect the same answer if the scenario was repeated on
multiple occasions, and what might cause differences in behaviour? [5]
	Since the maximum amount of data that can be sent in a packet over the network is typically 1500 - 40 bytes (1460), assuming the server calls recv() every time it receives a packet and there are no interruptions, it would take at least three calls to read all of the data. 
	However, this could change depending on how often the server application is allowed to call recv() by the operating system. If recv() is called frequently it may be read in sevaral small chunks, but if it is only called after the buffer is filled it may all be read at once in one call, but this is not guaranteed. 
	Factors such as network congestion and packet loss may also affect how many times recv() is called, as it would cause packets to arrive unpredictably.

(c) A TCP connection is used to transmit a file containing 1024 kilobytes of data. The
connection traverses a network that has a path maximum transmission unit (MTU) large
enough to allow each TCP segment to deliver one kilobyte of payload data, plus any
necessary header data. If no packets are lost, and the initial congestion window is 1 kilobyte,
what will be the duration of the TCP connection, measured in multiples of the network
round-trip time? Explain your working. [6]
	TCP uses an exponential algorithm to exponentially increase the size of the congestion buffer. If it starts at 1 kilobyte, it will send 2 the next time, 4 the next time, and so on. 
	The size of the congestion window is 2^RTT-1 where RTT is the number of round trips. In this case, 1024 is 2^10. since 2^10 - 1 is 1023, it would take 11 round trips to send all of the data.
	We must then add the RTT is takes to perform the TCP handshake. This makes 12 RTT total.

(d) You are running a voice-over-IP phone call, where the sender transmits one UDP packet
containing speech data every 20 ms. When sending over an otherwise idle IP network, the
UDP packets arrive every 20ms, matching the timing with which they are sent, after some
delay depending on the propagation time of the packets across the network. You start a
large file downloading using a TCP connection, traversing the same network path as the
voice-over-IP call. Discuss how this affects the voice-over-IP call. [4]
	Performing a TCP download on the same network path as a UDP data stream would cause the UDP stream to become choppy. This is because where it was previously using an uninterrupted data flow, the UDP packets are now being put inside of a buffer queue within the router before being forwarded to the phone. 
	If the buffer is filled with TCP packets (bufferbloat) then additional incoming packets (the UDP packets) will be dropped. This would cause large delays and jitteriness in the UDP data stream. 
	Because TCP sporadically retransmits data, the queue randomly speeds up and slows down, which leads to the UDP packets to be delivered in clumps or highly variable gaps, causing stuttering audio.

2.
 (a) In the original design of the Internet, packet forwarding was based solely on the destination
IP address of each packet, and the choice of transport protocol was solely a matter for the
end systems. In practice, this is no longer the case, and it is difficult for end systems to
use a transport protocol other than TCP or UDP (this is why, for example, QUIC is built
to run on top of UDP). Explain what prevents the use of other transport protocols in the
current Internet. Discuss the trade-offs around whether it is desirable to prevent the use of
new transport protocols in this manner. State whether you think such blocking is overall
helpful or harmful for the Internet, and justify your conclusion. [12]
	This is because of ossiffication in the internet. Middleboxes such as NATs and Firewalls have built rules around existing network standards, which means that if the standards are changed, the internet would break. It is not desirable to prevent the use of other transport protocols in this manner because it stagnates evolution in the internet and confines us to using outdated protocols. The benefit of this "deny-all" blocking techniques is that it effectively protects against attacks from hackers using novel techinques. However this blocking is overall harmful to the internet. For example, consider the IPv4 protocol. All of the available IP addresses in the world have been taken up. NATs were designed to mitigate this as a temporary solution. But now, since most people on the internet are using NATs, if the protocol was changed to a standard other than IP, the NATs would break. This is why IPv6 had to be designed to be backwards compatible with IPv4. This is why ossiffication and stagnation must be avoided in the internet. It is the same with QUIC, which had to be built around UDP to ensure that middleboxes won't automatically block it. We in the modern era still have to work with protocols that were designed in the 1990s to align with the stagnated network structure of the internet. This goes against the end to end rule which states that all complex processing should be done at the end points and the network should be kept dumb to limit interference.

(b) You are building a networked application, and decide that it might benefit from using the
QUIC transport protocol. When testing the application, you find that QUIC improves
performance for some clients, but that other clients fail to establish QUIC connections to
your servers, due to the presence of firewalls that block the UDP traffic on which QUIC
relies. Explain how you would work around this problem. Discuss whether the effort
needed to implement this work-around is worthwhile. [8]
	I would implement a TCP fallback in the application. If the QUIC connection establishment times out or is blocked, the application should fall back to using HTTP over TCP. This would be highly beneficial and almost necessary, as although the QUIC protocol offers massive performance benefits such as 0-RTT connection and better performance on lossy networks, the internet still has not entirely acceptec QUIC and not implementing a TCP fallback would block a large portion of internet users from accessing the application. As TCP has been around for a long time there are abundant libraries available for integrating it into applications, so the effort needed to implement the workaround would be minimal in comparison to the benefits. This ensures that the application has both the efficiency of QUIC and the reliability of TCP when necessary.

3.
(a) Many popular websites use content distribution networks (CDNs) to improve their service.
CDNs are designed to improve scalability and serve requests quickly by directing them to a data centre located near to the user making the request. Some CDNs do this by using the
DNS to direct requests, others use a technique known as anycast routing. Briefly explain
how these two approaches work. Discuss which would be most appropriate for a CDN
that is handling content where the number and geographic location of the users making the
requests is changing rapidly, and briefly explain why the other approach is not suitable. [12]
	A direct DNS request is sent from a stub resolver in the user's machine to their local ISP's recursive resolver. It sends the DNS hostname and tells the resolver to find the IP address for the associated server. The resolver performs a series of lookups to multiple DNS nameservers. First it queries the Root Nameserver which provides the IP address of the appropriate TLD server. For example, if the resolver queried the root server for www.csperkins.org, the root nameserver would provide the IP address of the .org TLD server. The resolver would then query the TLD server for csperkins.org, which would provide an address for the appropriate authoratitive server. The resolver would then query the authoratitive server for www.csperkins.org. If the domain uses a CDN, the authorititive server would look at the IP address of the resolver and point it to the edge server of the CDN which is topographically closest to it in the network. The resolver would then return this IP address to the user, and store it its DNS cache for fast access. The OS of the stub resolver would also cache the IP for future use. The problem with caching like this for users who are on the move is that the server which was closest to them when the search was performed may no be the closest server to them anymore, but it would still be used as its been stored in the cache. Likewise if the server goes down, the cached IP address would no longer be valid. It is worth mentioning that cached IPs have a Time To Live, after which the DNS search must be performed again.
	-
	Anycast routing bypasses the need to perform a full search by giving each of the CDN's edge servers the same IP address. Up until the authoratitive server, the steps for the DNS lookup are performed in the same way. However instead of performing any network topography calculations, the authorititive server just returns one IP address. The ISP's resolver hands this IP address back to the stub resolver and it is stored in the respective caches. The magic happens when the host tries to communicate with the IP address. The host will send its IP packets to the ISP's local router, and the router will use BGP to calculate the shortest path the that IP. The router may have multiple connections that lead to different servers with the same IP at the end, but using BGP, these servers will signal to the router how many network hops away from the router they are. The router will choose the connection with the least network hops. This happens dynamically every time the host tries to connect to the server. One of the main benefits besides being dynamically connected to the closest server is the failover safety associated with anycast routing. If the closest server fails, the router will just redirect traffic to the second closest server. The main issue with anycast routing is the possibility of flapping, which is when the you connect to a server using snycast routing but then the connection between you and that server is broken. The ISP's router will automatically reroute your transmissions to the second closest server, but since you never estblished a TCP connection with that server, the packets you send will be dropped and the new server will send back a TCP RST bit which will restart your connection and cancel any operation you were doing.
	-
	For this scenario, with the number and geographic location of users rapidly changing, anycast routing is the best choice due to its dynamicism and flexibility.

(b) CDNs often advertise that they provide protection from distributed denial of service (DDoS)
attacks for websites. Discuss what properties of a CDN might make it well-suited to
providing such a service. [2]
	CDNs are protected from DDoS attacks due to their distributed structure. As the distributed attack would typically be coming from hosts in many different geographic locations, the attack would be absorbed by multiple edge servers rather than going direclty to one server, which makes it less likely that any of the servers will be overwhelmed.

(c) A common use of CDNs is to support streaming video services, such as those offered by
Netflix or the BBC iPlayer. Consider the case where you are watching streaming video of a
live sporting event on such a service. Due to a fault, your Internet connection drops out for
several seconds before reconnecting. This causes the video play-back to stall.
Some time later you are watching a pre-recorded movie when your Internet connection
fails in the same way, dropping out for a few seconds before reconnecting. This time,
however, the movie continues playing, seemingly unaffected. Discuss why this difference
in behaviour occurs. [6]
	The playback can be kept smooth when streaming pre-recorded video because a buffer can be loaded ahead of time. The application can spend a few seconds or minutes loading a large buffer, and when the connection drops out, the application can read from this buffer instead of stalling playback, which allows for a smooth video even if the connection cuts.
	-
	With live streaming a large buffer can't be loaded because the application can't see into the future. Having a large buffer would mean the video is no longer real-time, so the application has to minimize the buffer to a maximum of a few seconds to eliminate minor network jitter. This means that this small buffer will be used up almost instantly when the connection is interrupted, causing the video to stall .