1.
 (a) A routing algorithm is used to find the best network layer path between two hosts that are
not directly connected. Two types of routing algorithm are used: intra-domain routing and
inter-domain routing. State what is the difference between these two types of routing, and
describe in what environment each type of algorithm would be used. [3]
	Inter domain routing is used to route data between autonomous networks. It uses BGP to find the most efficient routes for transmission. This type of routing is policy-based and relies on individual networks advertising paths to the host. These networks will typically advertise the cheapest path rather than the actual shortest path. This would be used to route data for example between data centers over large distances.
	-
	Intra domain routing is used to route data betwenn hosts within an autonomous system. This type of routing uses OSPF to find the shortest topographical routes between hosts (the route with the lowest "cost"). This type of routing is not policy based and is typically faster than inter-domain routing. This type of routing would be used for example on a University Campus network for linking internet routers.

(b) The Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is used for inter-domain routing in the Internet. A
BGP router builds its routing tables based on exchange of Autonomous System (AS)-path
vectors giving routes to destination IP address prefixes. The routing information exchanged
is often filtered to enforce policy, with the Gao-Rexford filtering rules being widely used.
Describe the Gao-Rexford rules, and explain why they are desirable. [5]
	The Gao-Rexford rules give a specific guideline for the ways in which paths should be advertised. There are three levels to a network: Providers, Peers, and Customers. Providers cost money to route data through (only go through them if you have to). Peers are free (you can go through them as much as you want). You are actually being paid to go through customers (You should be prioritixing going through them). The Gao-Rexford rules state that once data has gone down one level of priority it should never go back up - this would create a valley. It is mathematically proven that if everybody follows the Gao-Rexford rules then data will not get stuck in an infinite loop. these rules are economically effective as they choose the cheapest path, and they provide stability as BGP will always converge to a stable path and avoid infinite loops.
	TLDR: ASes do not provide transit services for peers or providers but they do provide transit services for customers.

(c) BGP routing is vulnerable to prefix hijacking attacks. Explain what is a prefix hijacking
attack in BGP, and discuss how the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) can help
prevent such attacks. [7]
	Prefix hijacking in BGP is when a hacker claims ownership of somebody else's legitimate IP prefix to get their neighbors to use their network as a path for transmission. This does not allow the hacker to decrypt data, but it can effectively pull data transmissions like a sink, preventing them from reaching their final destination. A good example of this is when Pakistan pretended they had the best route to YouTube in 2008. They accidentally directed all network traffic globally that was meant for Youtube to Pakistan's servers, although they were only trying to ban Youtube in their country.
	RPKI can be used to prevent this because it requires the owners of ASes to register Route Origin Authorization with the RPKI database before broadcasting their AS as a path. An ROA cryuptographically binds an IP prefix with the specific ASN that can be used to announce it. 
	This allows ASes to cross-check incoming BGP paths. If an AS broadcasts an IP prefix, but their ASN does not match the ASN authorized to broadcast that prefix in the RPKI database, the receiver will flag the route as invalid and the path will be ignored.

(d) Addresses in IPv6 are divided into a network part and a local identifier part. The network
part identifies the network to which the host connects, and the local identifier part identifies
the host on that network. There are two options for assigning the local identifier part: it
can either be derived from the link layer address of the host’s network interface or it can be
assigned randomly (a so-called privacy address). Discuss what are the privacy concerns
with using the host’s link layer address as the local identifier part of an IPv6 address, and
whether they are solved by using privacy addresses. [5]
	Using the host's link address as the local identifier leaves the host open to tracking from third parties. Since the link layer address remains constant across different networks, a government entity or hacker could monitor a host as they connect to different networks to track their movements. They could also build a profile of all the websites that a person visits at what times. This information can be used to determine where a person lives, what their lifestyle is, when they go to work, when they get home, and their vulnerabilities, for example if the host is frequently accessing a cancer support website. This gives dangerous ammunition for hackers to use to potentially threaten individuals.
	Privacy addressing would mask the link layer address, so it would no longer be possible to rack the user using this method as they access different networks and websites.
	However, privacy addressing would still reveal the user's network address, which can be used to determine the user's general geolocation. Users can also still be tracked using cookies, logged in accounts, etc. at the application layer.

2.
(a) The first lab exercise showed how to establish a TCP connection from a client to a server,
with the client first performing a DNS lookup then iterating through the results and trying
to connect to each possible IP address in turn. While this approach works, modern clients
often try to establish some of the connections in parallel rather than performing them all in
sequence. Explain why this is, and how they might decide what addresses to try in parallel. [4]


(b) Servers are increasing supporting QUIC as well as TCP. How does the addition of QUIC to
the network affect connection establishment? [4]


(c) In the Internet, reliable data transfer is achieved by having transport protocols, such as TCP
or QUIC, detect and retransmit any lost packets. This is known as end-to-end packet loss
recovery. An alternative approach might be to make packet loss detection and retransmission
a property of the link layer, such that loss is detected and packets are retransmitted within
the network, at the link where the problem occurs. This is known as in-network packet
loss recovery. Outline what are the advantages and disadvantages of end-to-end packet
loss recovery compared to in-network packet loss recovery. Discuss whether you think the
designers of the Internet made the right choice in selecting end-to-end recovery. [12]


3.
(a) The Domain Name System (DNS) is a hierarchical distributed database that maps from
names to IP addresses. At the top of the DNS hierarchy are the root servers. Explain what
role the root servers play in the DNS, and how resolvers know how to find the root servers. [3]


(b) The root servers typically use anycast IP addresses. Briefly explain what is an anycast IP
address, and they anycast is useful for the root servers. [5]


(c) There are two aspects to DNS security: transport security and record security. Briefly
explain what type of threat each of these protects against, and discuss which aspect of DNS
security is likely to give the biggest improvement to Internet security today. [4]


(d) Two methods of providing DNS transport security are to run DNS over TLS or to run DNS
over HTTPS. Running DNS over TLS is widely accepted, while running DNS over HTTPS
has proven to be controversial with operators and governments. Considering technical
differences between these transports, operational differences in how they are used, any legal
constraints, and business considerations of the operators, explain why DNS over HTTPS is
controversial and DNS over TLS is not, and discuss whether you think the concerns about
DNS over HTTPS are valid. Justify your answer. [8]