# 1. TCP and HTTP
 (a) **1/5**
 TCP connections proceed in two phases. First, the connection is established using a three-
way handshake (SYN, SYN+ACK, ACK) where the client and server agree to communicate
and synchronise their initial sequence numbers. Then, after that handshake has completed,
data is sent on the connection. Consider a modified version of TCP that overlaps these two
phases, where the client provides some data as an additional parameter to the connect()
function which is sent in the TCP segment that has the SYN bit set, with the response being
returned in the SYN+ACK segment. State what would be the benefit of this idea and discuss
why it is not feasible in practise. [5]
	This would be beneficial as it would make the handshake have a 0-RTT delay, where the client and server can start communicating immediately. However, it is not feasible in practice because the server and client would not be able to agree on a pre-shared encryption key beforehand, leaving the transmitted data vulnerable to malicious interception where the third party would be able to read the data without decrypting it.
	(I am slightly confused because could the sender not encrypt the data using the server's public key)
```
The primary benefit is in the reduction of latency. This is 0-RTT and is known as "TCP Fast Open". This drastically speeds up short exchanges like small HTTP web requests.
Concerns:
Amplification Attacks: An attacker could spoof a victim's IP as send a huge data packet in a SYN request to the server. The server would then respond with a massive amount of data to the victim, flooding their network.
Replay Attacks: TCP gaurantees no duplicates, but if a hacker intercepts a packet they could delay or repeat it without having to decrypt it. If the data in the SYN message was "send £50" that could be a big problem
Middlebox Interference: Many ossified Firewalls and NATs are hard-coded to drop SYN packets that contain data
This is why TCP Fast Open is not recommended for sensitive applications like banking.
```

(b) **3/5**
When TCP starts to send data, it uses the slow start algorithm to determine an appropriate
congestion window size then switches to the congestion avoidance mode to adapt the con-
gestion window to ongoing network conditions. It is sometimes suggested that TCP should
remember the congestion window it used when sending data to a particular destination,
and start new connections to that destination with the saved congestion window rather than
using slow start. Briefly discuss the potential benefits and risks of this suggestion. [5]
	The benefit of this is that it would theoretically remove the need for a slow start, allowing you to send data faster. However, the congestion window is not constant. You can't save the congestion window between sessions because the traffic in the network is not constant. Doing this might force the router at the destination to signal for congestion control which would cut the transmission rate in half. If the router does not signal congestion control it could lead to lost or corrupted data.
```
Benefits: The benefit would be bypassing the Slow phase, allowing you to instantly transfer data at the optimal rate. For an application that needs to make periodic bursty connections to the same server this would be highly beneficial.
Risks: The internet fluctuates. The congestion window that was correct for the last session may not be right for this session. If the client send a sudden, massive data package with a huge cached congestion window onto a newly congested network it would cause immediate, massive packet loss and router bufferbloat.
```

(c) **3/10**
Recent versions of HTTP include a server push feature. This allows a web server to send
unsolicited data to the client, responding as if the server had received a request to retrieve a
particular URL without such a request being submitted. This server push feature is claimed
to improve performance in certain cases, although experiments have shown that the actual
performance impact is mixed. Discuss why and how server push can improve performance,
giving an example to illustrate your argument, and stating by what metric are improvements
measured. Explain in what circumstances server push might not help, and might even hurt,
performance. Finally, state whether you think HTTP server push is likely to be a net benefit
overall, justifying your answer. [10]
	Server push would only be beneficial if the server is sending data that the client needs before the client asks for it, effectively halving the amount of time it would take for the client to receive the data. However, the downside is that the server won't always know what data the client wants. Algorithms can be used to determine data that would likely be useful to the client but this won't be 100 % accurate. This would introduce unnecessary network traffic as the server would be sending data over the network that the client doesn't need.
	For example, in the case of a ...
	I believe that HTTP server push is a benefit overall, due to its predictive nature. This means that although it can add traffic to the network, the traffic it saves by reducing the amount of transmissions over the network outweighs this.
```
How it Improves Performance:
HTTPS Server push can improve performance by anticipating data that client needs before they do and sending it to them before they send a request.
Example: For example, if a client requested index.html the server would know that the client would need style.css to render it, so they could push that alongside the html file. The primary metric used to measure performance is page load time.
How it hurts performance:
If the client already had style.css the server would be wasting bandwidth by sending it anyway. The server doesn't know what data the client already has. If the server was to send heavy assets this could take up all the bandwidth and delay the transmission of the html file.
Discussion:
Generally HTTP/2 is not considered a net benefit because it wastes bandwidth. Providers like Google Chrome have depreciated it in favour of other methods.
```
# 2. IP and DNS
(a) **2/6**
The network is in the middle of a transition from IPv4 to IPv6, with current estimates
showing that almost half of the traffic is using IPv6 and that this fraction is growing. The
main change between the two IP versions is that IPv6 uses 128 bit addresses compared
to the 32 bit addresses used in IPv4. Do you think 128 bits was the right size for IPv6
addresses? Discuss the trade-offs that would have been considered when selecting the size
of the IPv6 address. [6]
	I do believe that 128 bits is the right size for IPv6 addresses. The thought behind IPv4 was that we would never exhaust the massive number of addresses that would give us (2^32 = 4 Billion addresses), but we have. I believe that although it may seem overkill, having what seems like a too-large address pool now will future-proof the protocol. This comes with the trade-off of more transmission data needing to be set aside for metadata, but with the large packets that we send across the network nowadays I think this is trivial compared to the benefits.
```
Trade-offs: The primary trade-off of using a 128 bit address space over 32 bits is overhead. The IPv6 headers are 40 bytes whilst IPv4 is only 20 bytes.This consumes more bandwidth and means more memory and processing power for routing tables. There is also difficulty in converting all devices to the new IP format.
Discussion:
64 bits would have provided enough addresses for every device but 128 bits provides functionality. I allows for massive hierarchical routing and stateless address autoconfiguration. This makes network management highly automated and removes reliance on DHCP and NAT.
```

(b) **2/4 - got geographic latency and local caching but kept talking about CDNs and didn't mention local ISP resolver**
People use domain names (e.g., google.com) to identify sites, with software applications
performing a DNS lookup to convert these into IP addresses prior to use. The time it takes
to perform such a DNS lookup can vary significantly. Explain what causes this variation. [4]
	It depends on the distance of the actual server. A DNS lookup bounces between multiple intermediaries (Content Distribution Networks) until it finds the data it's looking for. Sometimes the data will be cached in a nearby CDN so the lookup will be fast. But sometimes it will be halfway across the planet, so it would take a while for the data to travel over the network to the host. The time it takes for lookup can also be altered by local network conditions - network connection, network traffic, etc.
```
Apparently this question has nothing to do with CDNs.
If a domain is cached by your ISP's local resolver the lookup will only take a few milliseconds.
If it is not cached your resolver will have to perform a fool recursive search of the entire internet which takes much longer. (Querying root servers, then TLD servers, then authoratitive servers).
Variation is also influenced by geographic latency to those authoratitive servers and UDP packet loss, which forces the system to wait for a timeout before retrying.
```

(c) **7/10**
DNS queries can be sent to a resolver using one of four transport protocols: UDP, TCP,
TLS, or HTTPS. The use of the latter transport, DNS over HTTPS, has proven controversial,
with claims that it helps users evade legitimate access control mechanisms. Explain why
such criticism has been levelled at DNS over HTTPS but not at DNS running over the other
transport protocols. [10]
	DNS over HTTPS can be used to bypass local network restrictions. It provides a layer of privacy because it hides the DNS lookup amongst a sea of other HTTPS traffic coming out of the standard web traffic port (port 443). It also means that the only restrictions on it are remote restrictions server-side.
	Although this can be controversial - bypassing parental controls and local government restrictions for example - it is also invaluable. For example, journalists in war-torn countries. The use of this protocol means they can't be monitored and censored via their network traffic and can bypass local government restrictions to communicate with their home country.
	This is specific to DNS over HTTPS and not DNS over other transport protocols because other transport protocols don't send data as HTTPS out of the HTTPS port. Other protocols are controlled by local network restrictions and it is clear when and where DND lookups are being performed as they come out of a unique port with special encryption and known characteristics (Such as the TCP and TLS handshakes).
```
Traditional DNS: uses specific well-known ports to send and receive data. Because the traffic is segragated to specific ports, network administrators, enterprise firewalls, and control software can easily monitor and intercept these transmissions to enforce local access controls.
DNS over HHTPS: Encapsulates encrypted DNS queries with standard web traffic on port 443. To a firewall, ISP, or administrator, DoH is visually identical to a user browsing a secure website or streaming a video. Because middleboxes cannot distinguish DoH from standard network traffic without breaking the encryption, DoH effectively blinds local administrators, allowing users to bypass local access control mechanisms.
```

# 3. TCP and UDP
(a) **0/2**
When sending multimedia data, such as video conferencing traffic or live TV broadcasts,
across the Internet, the amount of data that must be sent in a given time interval varies,
exhibiting bursty behaviour between fixed upper and lower bounds. Briefly explain why
the traffic pattern is bursty and why there are constraints on the minimum and maximum
amount of data that needs to be sent in a given time period. [2]
	Video conferencing and live TV are sent across the internet using the UDP transfer protocol. UDP is like a fire-hose of data aimed at the receiver. It operates using a best-effort approach, which means that it tries its best to get the data to the receiver but doesn't resend lost packets.
	UDP can be bursty if your network connection is poor. This is because data is still being sent but you are delayed in receiving it. In video conferencing and live TV this would make for an unpleasant viewing experience if the video kept cutting and jolting, so designers made the video speed up for a period of time rather than cutting. 
	There are constraints on maximum and minimum data because sending too much data would overload the network. Sending not enough data would give a poor quality video. Therefore you must match the UDP sending rate to the requirements of the video.
```
Why is it bursty: Video Compression relies on Variable Bit Rate (VBR) encoding. It sends an "I-frame" (a complete large image) followed by several P-frames or B-frames (Which are much smaller as they only encode visual differences from the previous frame). This creates an inherently uneven, bursty flow of data, which becomes more noticeable the more movement there is in the video.
Constraints: The upper bound is limited by the maximum capacity of the network. The lower bound is dictated by the absolute minumum data required to maintain an acceptible level of video/audio quality to the user.
```

(b) **2/8 - Did not talk about TCP Cubic or mention latency, jitter, or dropped frames/packets**
You are participating in an interactive video conference with the video data being sent in
UDP packets at a rate that matches the needs of the video. While doing this, you download
a very large file over a TCP connection. Assume the TCP connection uses the Cubic
congestion control algorithm, and the network capacity is enough to comfortably transmit
the video data alone without packet loss. State what happens to the quality of the video call
while the TCP download is running and explain why this happens. [8]
	The quality of the video call running over UDP would degrade whilst the download over TCP is being performed. This is because the TCP download would require its own network capacity, and it would borrow this from the UDP stream.
	Whilst UDP is a best effort algorithm (This means it delivers inconsistent quality), TCP is a reliable algorithm (it re-transmits lost and corrupted data). This means that TCP requires acknowledgements for all of the packets it sends and will re-transmit data if it receives 3 acknowledgements of the same data in a row. This means TCP takes up more network capacity than UDP, which does not use acknowledgements and is just a one-way stream of data.
	Whilst the TCP download will not reduce in quality it may take longer due to the UDP stream, the UDP stream will not take longer but it will reduce in quality.
```
This question Requires knowledge of TCP Cubic
The video quality would severely degrade. The user would experience high latency, jitter, and dropped frames.
TCP cubic is a loss-based congestion algorithm. It aggressively ramps up its sending rate to consume 100% of the available network capacity until it detects a dropped packet. In doing do TCP entirely fills the router's buffers. Since TCP and UDP share the same network path this means UDP gets trapped at the back of this massive queue of TCP packets (This is known as bufferbloat). This introduces massive latency in the video call. When the router buffer eventually overflows, packets are dropped. Since UDP does not retransmit that means those video frames are lost permanently.
```

(c) **3/10 - did not talk about TCP packet re-transmission, head-of-line blocking (packet delay), and did not talk about non-real-time streaming applications**
Interactive video conferencing applications typically send their data in UDP. Explain
why these applications use UDP rather than TCP. Discuss in what circumstances such
applications would be able to effectively use TCP with Cubic congestion control as a
transport. [10]
	Video conferencing applications use UDP rather than TCP as UDP is capable of sending much larger amounts of data in a shorter amount of time. The UDP data stream is unreliable but fierce, and for video calls which don't require perfect data transfer (Lost packets just lead to blurriness or discoloration) UDP is perfect. TCP is used for applications which require exact and perfect data transfer, such as bank transactions. 
	TCP could be used for these transactions if there was a very large network capacity and very low latency. It still would not be as good as UDP but as long as it was able to transfer data in real-time it would work.
	(What is cubic congestion control)
	TCP uses cubic congestion control, which means it actively monitors the network for congestion and will keep sending larger packets until it hits the congestion ceiling and will set its congestion boundaries based on this. With a high congestion ceiling the video conferencing application might work.
```
Why use UDP: UDP is superior for real-time streaming because it cannot afford delays. TCP uses head-of-line blocking, which means when a packet is lost TCP will block transmission until that packet has been retransmitted and acknowledged, which can introduce delays up to hundreds of milliseconds. This would not work in a real-time video call. If UDP loses a packet it just drops it and move on, which creates a brief visual glitch but allows it to continue with the real-time feed.
A situation where TCP Cubic would work: TCP would work if the amount of video data to send was low enough that TCP can't keep increasing its sending rate to fill the queue because it keeps running out of data to send, so packet loss remains uncommon and the application can usually meet its timing bounds.
```

# 23/60 = 38.33%

# Key Takeaways
TCP fast open
router bufferbloat
TCP Cubic
HTTP Server Push
ISP resolvers
IPv6 vs IPv4
