# 1.
(a) **3/6**
A web browser, running on a client machine, connects to a web server for the first time and
retrieves an HTTPS page over a TCP connection. Starting with the first packet of the TCP
connection until the HTTP response is received, describe what packets are sent by each of
the client and server, and outline what is their purpose. [6]
	1. SYN packet: The SYN packet is the first packet sent from the client to the server, and its purpose is to request a connection with the server which contains the client's connection data
	2. SYN+ACK: The SYN+ACK is sent from the server in response to the client's SYN packet. This is a bundled acknowledgement of the client's request and the server's own connection data
	3. ACK + client hello: The final packet sent in the TCP handshake is the clients ACK in response to the server's SYN. This packet is typically bundled together with the TLS clienthello, which is the first step in the TLS security handshake
	4. acknowledge+Serverhello: The Server send a serverhello
	5. acknowledge + data: The client acknowledges the server's server hello. This packet is typically sent bundled with the initial request for data from client to server.
```
There is no TLS acknowledge. You are unfamiliar with the TLS handshake. 
1. TCP SYN: client requests connection.
2. TCP SYN+ACK: Server akcnowledges connection and sends its connection parameters.
3. TCP ACK + TLS Clienthello: Client acknowledged the TCP connection and immediately starts the TLS handshake. In the Clienthello it proposes a cipher suite and sends a random byte string.
4. TLS Serverhello + certificate: The server chooses a cipher, sends its certificate, and finished its side of the handshake.
5. TLS ClientKeyExchange + Finished + HTTP GET: Client sends the session key data, finishes the TLS handshake, and sends its first HTTP request.
6. HTTP Response: The server sends the requested web page data.
```

(b) **2/6**
In the scenario described in Question 1(a), the first part of the requested data is received
by the client approximately three round-trip times after the initial TCP packet was sent.
Describe three ways in which the protocols could change in order to reduce the time taken
to retrieve the data to approximately two round-trips, and explain why each of them is
problematic and unusable in practice [6]
	TCP fast open: TCP fast open uses a pre-shared key to encrypt data between the client and the server and allow for 0-RTT return time. This key is not forward secret, so if it is leaked a hacker could decrypt all of the past communications between the client and server that used that key.
	-
	TLS 0-RTT: Has the same principle of using a pre shared key with no forward secrecy
	-
	combine the handshakes: You could combine the TCP and TLS handshakes like in the QUIC protocol.
```
TCP fast open does NOT use a pre-shared key.
TCP fast open: Places HTTP/TLS request inside the initial TCP SYN packet.
Problem: many middleboxes and firewalls are ossified and will automatically drop SYN packets that contain data payloads.
TLS 0-RTT: Uses a pre-shared key from a previous session to send data on the first flight.
Problem: It is vulnerable to replay attacks.
Combine the TCP and TLS handshakes: You could send the Clienthello alongside SYN, serverhello with SYN+ACK, and clientkeyexchange with ACK.
Problem: TLS certificate is too large to fit inside the SYN+ACK packet. It would have to be fragmented, but firewalls hate fragmentation so the packets would probably be dropped. 
```

(c) **0/8**
The process of peer-to-peer connection establishment in the presence of NAT devices
proceeds in three stages: binding discovery, candidate exchanges, and then probing for
connectivity.
Assume two peers, Alice and Bob, are trying to establish such a peer-to-peer connection
between their devices. Both are using laptops that have active Ethernet and WiFi network
interfaces. Alice is on a dual-stack network with IPv4 and IPv6 available on both interfaces.
Bob has a dual stack Ethernet, with IPv4 and IPv6 enabled, but has access to only IPv4 on
WiFi. Both Alice and Bob have access to a STUN server that is accessible over IPv4 that
can be used for binding discovery, a relay server also accessible over IPv4, and a signalling
channel over which they can exchange candidates.
Explain how many candidate addresses each of Alice and Bob will have available after
the binding discovery phase. State, with justification, what is the number of combinations
of candidate address pairs that will need to be probed for connectivity in the worst case.
Describe any assumptions you make [8]
```
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) gathers IP addresses to figure out how two peers can connect. It looks for locak IPs, Server Reflexive (STUN) IPs and Relay (TURN) IPs. ICE only pairs with IPv4 with IPv4 and IPv6 with IPv6.
Alice:
Relay - 2xIPv4
STUN - 2xIPv4
Host - 2xIPv4 2xIPv6

Bob:
Relay - 2xIPv4
STUN - 2xIPv4
Host - 2xIPv4 1xIPv6

Total IPv4 possible combinations: 6x6 = 36
Total IPv6 Possible combinations: 1x2 = 2
36+2 = 38 possible combinations.
```
# 2.
 (a) **6/6 - Excellent** 
 Modern DNS resolvers can be accessed by sending DNS queries using TLS (called “DoT”
for short) or using HTTPS (“DoH”), in either case running over a TCP connection. Explain
how the two approaches work and discuss why DoH has proven controversial while DoT
has not. [6]
	DNS over TLS performs the TLS handshake using standard public key encoding and sends data from a specialized port on the client device.
	DNS of HTTPS uses HTTPS encoding and sends data out of port 443 alongside other web traffic.
	It is not possible to distinguish DoH from other web traffic, which makes it invisible to third parties such as hackers and network operators. This also means that it is impossible to enforce local network restrictions on a DoH connection, so it can be used to bypass parental controls and banned websites. This is what makes DoH controversial as it could be used maliciously. DoT is not controversial because its traffic can be easily detected and monitored coming out of a  unique port in a predictable pattern pattern.

(b) **2/6**
At the top-level of the DNS hierarchy are the root servers. While the physical servers that
implement the DNS root are geographically widely distributed, with hundreds of replicas
located around the world, technical limitations of the DNS protocol are such that there can
be only 13 root server operators. For historical reasons, most of the root server operators
are US-based organisations.
Discuss whether this concentration of root server operators into a single jurisdiction is a
concern, considering both technical and non-technical factors. [6]
	This is a concern for countries that are not allied with the US. For example, if the US government decided they wanted to effectively cut a country off from a large part of the internet as part of a military tactic or political strategy, they could do so.
	Technically speaking it is also not great to have a lot of large servers localized in one place because of geographical delays. Having a close proximity to the servers is good for Americans as it provides low latency but everyone else in the world would have higher latency due to geographical delay.
	Overall I believe that most of the internet's root DNS servers provides the US with an unfair bias in the Internet.
```
You are wrong about the latency. Those 13 root servers use anycast routing, which means those 12 IPs are mirrored across thousands of physical servers worldwide.
Keeping the root servers under a group under a single jurisdiction increases the risk of BGP hijacking and routing vulnerabilities.
The internet relies on Border Gateway Protocol to find the servers. BGP routes traffic based on trust. If the majority of root servers are US based they are probably heavily reliant on US-based tier-1 transit providers to announce their anycast routes globally. If a massive BGP misconfiguration or a malicious BGP hijack occurs within those core US networks it could swallow or misdirect the DNS traffic intended for the root servers. Because the operators share similar geopolitical and network topology ties, a targeted attack on US routing infrastructure could have a disproportionate cascading effect on global DNS resolution.
```

(c) **6/8** 
With the aid of an example, explain what is meant by ossification of network protocols
and why it is a concern. Explain what is GREASE, and discuss why the combination of
pervasive encryption and GREASE is thought to help avoid protocol ossification. [8]
	Protocol ossification is the name given to the phenomenon of networks becoming dependent on specific protocols. This makes evolution in the network extremely difficult as changing what the internet has ossified around breaks the internet.
	GREASE is an acronym. It means that you should be constantly changing and adding unnecessary bugs and differences into your network protocols to prevent the Network from ossifying around them. A good example of this is the QUIC transfer protocol. QUIC encrypts as much of its data as possible and frequently includes random and unnecessary data in its transmissions. This means that the Network cannot see QUIC packets, and as such cannot understand them, and therefore cannot ossify around them.
```
GREASE does NOT introduce bugs. It sends dummy data in the headers. It forces middleboxes to ignore things they don't understand rather than dropping connections. GREASE - Generate Random Extensions And Sustain Extensibility.
```
# 3.
(a) **0/4** 
The IPv4 address space was fully allocated some years ago and it is now common to use
network address translation (NAT) to allow a number of devices on a private network to
share a single public IPv4 address. If you are a network operator, and have been allocated the public IPv4 address range 192.0.2.0/24 for your network and customers, how many
customers can you support, assuming that each customer is allocated only a single IPv4
address? [4]
	Assuming each customer is using a NAT, you could support up to 24 customers. That's one IP for the network and 24 for the customers.
```
This is a fundamental misunderstanding. 192.0.2.0/24 does not mean you have 24 host addresses to use. It means 24 bits of the 32 bit IP address are dedicated to the network prefix and only 8 bits are left available for hosts.
2^8 = 256 addresses total
Now you have to subtract 3 for the network address, broadcast address, and router/gateway IP.
256-3 = 253 Host addresses
```

(b) **3/6**
Assuming they cannot switch to IPv6 or increase the size of their IPv4 address allocation,
describe how the network operator described in Question 3(a) could organize their network
to support more customers. Is there a limit to the number of customers that operator can
support, given only the 192.0.2.0/24 address range? [6]
	They could theoretically use nested network address translation. This means one NAT could support multiple other NATs which could support multiple customers. This would lead to higher latency and overhead as more time and power would need to be dedicated to address translation in the network. It also increases risks already present with middleboxes such as ossification. Theoretically the number of customers that could be supported with nested NATs is unlimited but in practice you could only use so many layers before the overhead became too high.
```
This concept is called carrier-grade NAT. However, its limit isn't just processing overhead, it's available ports on the IP address. An IP address has an upper limit of 65,535 ports. Every active web connection a customer makes takes up a port.
```

(c) **0/10**
As the Internet has grown, a number of organisations have deployed private networks on a
global scale. These include Internet companies such as Apple, Facebook, Google, Netflix,
and Microsoft, as well as cloud computing infrastructure providers and content distribution
networks such as Amazon Web Services, Akamai, and Cloudflare, amongst others.
The experience of these companies is that the latencies they measure across their private
networks are often significantly lower than the latencies measured between similar sites
across the public Internet. That is, the latency of intradomain paths is lower than that of the
interdomain paths selected by BGP, despite both sets of paths being between data centers in
the same cities. For example, the latency measured between the Amazon data centers in
São Paulo, Brazil, and Dublin, Ireland, is often lower when measured through Amazon’s
private network than when measured across the public Internet.
Considering both the operation of Internet routing and other factors, discuss why the
latencies measured in private networks are lower than those measured across the public
Internet. [10]
	There are several reasons that the public internet has higher latency than private networks.
	Bandwidth: The public internet is used by millions of people, who are all taking up network bandwidth and processing power in the network and network devices.
	middleware: The presence of middleware in the network slows down data transmission. This middleware can be middleboxes like NATs, firewalls, or content filters. Private networks won't be slowed down by all of this bloatware.
	Corporations: Corporations often don't share their network space with their neighbors. They like to keep it to themselves which increases their own network speed and privacy.
```
The real reason is Border Gateway Control. It is specified that the public internet uses interdomain routing, which indicated BGP. BGP is an interdomain protocol that routes traffic based on business agreements, peering costs, and politics. It does not care about the shortest or fastest physical path. It cares about the cheapest path.
In contrast, Amazon's private network uses interdomain routing. Interdomain routing literally calculates the fastest, shortest fiber-optic path between two data centers.
```
# 22/60 = 36.67%
# Areas for improvement
- TLS handshake
- IP address range
- GREASE
- BGP (Border Gateway Control)
- interdomain and intradomain routing